We can also, using the class, discover the classes that we
derive from all the interfaces we implement.
So in the code,
I've created an empty Vehicle class, and I've had
our Car class derive from this.
So now inside Main, we could say something like this.
We can say Class superClass = cls.getSuperclass and then say while(superClass !=
null), print out the name of the class. We can print out into this as a println,
superClass.getName, and then finally say superClass = superClass.getSuperclass,
so we keep walking up the hierarchy.
Then if you run this code, we'll see that superClass of Car is Vehicle, the
superClass of Vehicle is Object, and Object has no superClass, so getSuperclass
here returns null. Once we have the class object,
we can then go ahead and discover which constructors the class has.
We saw at the start of this module that trying to create an instance of
the class will try and use the default constructor.
We'll see in a moment there are ways of using other
constructors within the class.
So there's a Constructor type. We can get the list of constructors from
the class by saying cls.getConstructors. And the same as before, we can
use getDeclaredConstructors or we can use getConstructors to get the
constructors from this object. So let's use getDeclaredConstructors to
find our constructors.
And then, again,
we can enter a for loop, so we can say for (Constructor c: ctors).
And initially,
again, we'll just print out the name of the constructor,
so c.getName. And if I run this code,
we know that we have two constructors, so com.pluralsight.Car and
com.pluralsight.Car. So just as with the methods, we'll use printf to
print out the name of the constructor, and then from the constructor,
we can call getParameterCount, and we can print that out. So we can do
System.out.printf("%d") and print out the number of parameters here.
And, again,
we put this in brackets and, again, at the end we put a
semicolon, and then we print out a blank line.
So again,
if I run this, we'll see we have a Car constructor with 0 parameters
and a Car constructor with a single parameter.
So, as well as getting the count of parameters,
there's also a parameter type, and we can get the collection of parameters.
So from the constructor,
I can call getParameters, and that returns back the collection, And, again,
I can loop over this collection of parameters. We'll say for (Parameter p :
parameters), and then each parameter we get,
we can print out information about the parameter.
So again, for example, we can print out the name of the parameter,
and we can also print out the type of the parameter, so p.getType
prints out the type information, and let's just comma separate these,
so we can do %s in both cases. So, again,
I can rerun the code. So we know this has no parameters.
So nothing printed out there.
This one, the parameter is called arg0.
We don't get the full name.
We just get arg0 here, so we know that in this case it's an
integer parameter, and we'll see a little later on that we can
use that information to actually call the constructor and to
create one of these objects.
We can also get the parameters from methods.
So here I just brought the method code back in. We're calling
getDeclaredMethods, and we're printing out the name of the
method and the number of parameters.
And if I just paste in the code from the constructor, we can
change this from c to method, method.getParameters.
Again,
we get the list of parameters, and we can print the name and the
type of the parameter for each of the declared methods that we
have. And, again, if I run this code, we'll again find the three
methods of drive for two methods.
One was a char and one was an int, and selectDrive at a single parameter, and
that's just a char. So similarly to methods and constructors, we can get the
fields of a type as well. So I can say Field fields = cls.getFields. And,
again, we have getFields and we have getDeclaredFields. So in this case,
we'll use getDeclaredFields. And, again, from here, if we put a loop in, so
for field : fields.
So here we can do a printout of the name of the field, and we can also get
the type of the field as well. So we can say field.getType. And, again, if we
separate these two, so we do %s %s, and in fact,
let's put the second one in brackets to show the type, and add
a new line here, and then run this code.
We print the fields from the field called speed that's named
a field called driveType that's a char. If I go and look
inside my Car class, sure enough, we have int and char inside here.
So what about arrays? Here in the Car class, I've added a people field,
which is an array of String.
If I go back into Main.Java, we can grab a reference in
that field, so I can say class.getField.
I can say Field field = cls.getDeclaredField and pass in the name of the field,
which is people.
Once I have that,
I can get the type of the class, so I can say Type t =
field.getType. I can then print out the type of the field,
so we can say t.getTypeName,
print out the type of this field. If I run this code,
this prints out as java.lang.String array, so we know
that the field is a string array.
So, of course, we don't want to look at the string representation of
the type to discover whether this thing is an array. GetType actually
returns a type Class. So, as well as printing out the name of the type
using t.getType, we could also print out another property of this
thing called isArray. And from this, we can see whether or not we have
an array.
So now we get java.lang.String array, and we also get true.
So isArray for this particular field tells us that we have an
array value. And, again, a little later, we'll see how we can set the value of the array.